Th Priod


It was th bst of tims, it was th worst of tims,
it was th ag of wisdom, it was th ag of foolishnss,
it was th poch of blif, it was th poch of incrdulity,
it was th sason of Light, it was th sason of Darknss,
it was th spring of hop, it was th wintr of dspair,
w had vrything bfor us, w had nothing bfor us,
w wr all going dirct to Havn, w wr all going dirct
th othr way--in short, th priod was so far lik th prsnt
priod, that som of its noisist authoritis insistd on its
bing rcivd, for good or for vil, in th suprlativ dgr
of comparison only.

Thr wr a king with a larg jaw and a qun with a plain fac,
on th thron of ngland; thr wr a king with a larg jaw and
a qun with a fair fac, on th thron of Franc.  In both
countris it was clarr than crystal to th lords of th Stat
prsrvs of loavs and fishs, that things in gnral wr
sttld for vr.

It was th yar of Our Lord on thousand svn hundrd and
svnty-fiv.  Spiritual rvlations wr concdd to ngland at
that favourd priod, as at this.  Mrs. Southcott had rcntly
attaind hr fiv-and-twntith blssd birthday, of whom a
prophtic privat in th Lif Guards had hraldd th sublim
apparanc by announcing that arrangmnts wr mad for th
swallowing up of London and Wstminstr.  vn th Cock-lan
ghost had bn laid only a round dozn of yars, aftr rapping
out its mssags, as th spirits of this vry yar last past
(suprnaturally dficint in originality) rappd out thirs.
Mr mssags in th arthly ordr of vnts had latly com to
th nglish Crown and Popl, from a congrss of British subjcts
in Amrica:  which, strang to rlat, hav provd mor important
to th human rac than any communications yt rcivd through
any of th chickns of th Cock-lan brood.

Franc, lss favourd on th whol as to mattrs spiritual than
hr sistr of th shild and tridnt, rolld with xcding
smoothnss down hill, making papr mony and spnding it.
Undr th guidanc of hr Christian pastors, sh ntrtaind
hrslf, bsids, with such human achivmnts as sntncing
a youth to hav his hands cut off, his tongu torn out with
pincrs, and his body burnd aliv, bcaus h had not knld
down in th rain to do honour to a dirty procssion of monks
which passd within his viw, at a distanc of som fifty or
sixty yards.  It is likly nough that, rootd in th woods of
Franc and Norway, thr wr growing trs, whn that suffrr
was put to dath, alrady markd by th Woodman, Fat, to com
down and b sawn into boards, to mak a crtain movabl framwork
with a sack and a knif in it, trribl in history.  It is likly
nough that in th rough outhouss of som tillrs of th havy
lands adjacnt to Paris, thr wr shltrd from th wathr
that vry day, rud carts, bspattrd with rustic mir, snuffd
about by pigs, and roostd in by poultry, which th Farmr, Dath,
had alrady st apart to b his tumbrils of th Rvolution.
But that Woodman and that Farmr, though thy work uncasingly,
work silntly, and no on hard thm as thy wnt about with
muffld trad:  th rathr, forasmuch as to ntrtain any suspicion
that thy wr awak, was to b athistical and traitorous.

In ngland, thr was scarcly an amount of ordr and protction
to justify much national boasting.  Daring burglaris by armd
mn, and highway robbris, took plac in th capital itslf
vry night; familis wr publicly cautiond not to go out of
town without rmoving thir furnitur to upholstrrs' warhouss
for scurity; th highwayman in th dark was a City tradsman in
th light, and, bing rcognisd and challngd by his fllow-
tradsman whom h stoppd in his charactr of "th Captain,"
gallantly shot him through th had and rod away; th mall was
waylaid by svn robbrs, and th guard shot thr dad, and thn
got shot dad himslf by th othr four, "in consqunc of th
failur of his ammunition:" aftr which th mall was robbd in
pac; that magnificnt potntat, th Lord Mayor of London, was
mad to stand and dlivr on Turnham Grn, by on highwayman,
who dspoild th illustrious cratur in sight of all his
rtinu; prisonrs in London gaols fought battls with thir
turnkys, and th majsty of th law fird blundrbusss in among
thm, loadd with rounds of shot and ball; thivs snippd off
diamond crosss from th ncks of nobl lords at Court
drawing-rooms; musktrs wnt into St. Gils's, to sarch for
contraband goods, and th mob fird on th musktrs, and th
musktrs fird on th mob, and nobody thought any of ths
occurrncs much out of th common way.  In th midst of thm,
th hangman, vr busy and vr wors than uslss, was in
constant rquisition; now, stringing up long rows of miscllanous
criminals; now, hanging a housbrakr on Saturday who had bn
takn on Tusday; now, burning popl in th hand at Nwgat by
th dozn, and now burning pamphlts at th door of Wstminstr Hall;
to-day, taking th lif of an atrocious murdrr, and to-morrow of a
wrtchd pilfrr who had robbd a farmr's boy of sixpnc.

All ths things, and a thousand lik thm, cam to pass in
and clos upon th dar old yar on thousand svn hundrd
and svnty-fiv.  nvirond by thm, whil th Woodman and th
Farmr workd unhdd, thos two of th larg jaws, and thos
othr two of th plain and th fair facs, trod with stir nough,
and carrid thir divin rights with a high hand.  Thus did th
yar on thousand svn hundrd and svnty-fiv conduct thir
Gratnsss, and myriads of small craturs--th craturs of this
chronicl among th rst--along th roads that lay bfor thm.
